## What is HBase?
- HBase is a column-oriented data storage architecture that is formed on top of HDFS to overcome its limitations. 
- It leverages the basic features of HDFS and builds upon it to provide scalability by handling a large volume of the read and write requests in real-time. 
- Although the HBase architecture is a NoSQL database, it eases the process of maintaining data by distributing it evenly across the cluster. This makes accessing and altering data in the HBase data model quick

## Components

### HMaster
- HMaster operates similar to its name. 
- It is the master that assigns regions to Region Server (slave). 
- HBase architecture uses an Auto Sharding process to maintain data. In this process, whenever an HBase table becomes too long, it is distributed by the system with the help of HMaster. 
- Some of the typical responsibilities of HMaster includes:
1. Control the failover
2. Manage the Region Server and Hadoop cluster
3  Handle the DDL operations such as creating and deleting tables
4. Manage changes in metadata operations
5  Manage and assign regions to Region Servers
6. Accept requests and sends it to the relevant Region Server

### Region Server
- Region Servers are the end nodes that handle all user requests. 
- Several regions are combined within a single Region Server. 
- These regions contain all the rows between specified keys. 
- Handling user requests is a complex task to execute, and hence Region Servers are further divided into four different components to make managing requests seamless.

- ***Write-Ahead Log (WAL):*** WAL is attached to every Region Server and stores sort of temporary data that is not yet committed to the drive.

- ***Block Cache:*** It is a read request cache; all the recently read data is stored in block cache. Data that is not used often is automatically removed from the stock when it is full.

- ***MemStore:*** It is a write cache responsible for storing data not written to the disk yet.

- ***HFile:*** The HFile stores all the actual data after the commitment.

## ZooKeeper
- ZooKeeper acts as the bridge across the communication of the HBase architecture. 
- It is responsible for keeping track of all the Region Servers and the regions that are within them. 
- Monitoring which Region Servers and HMaster are active and which have failed is also a part of ZooKeeper’s duties. 
- When it finds that a Server Region has failed, it triggers the HMaster to take necessary actions. 
- On the other hand, if the HMaster itself fails, it triggers the inactive HMaster that becomes active after the alert. 
- Every user and even the HMaster need to go through ZooKeeper to access Region Servers and the data within. 
- ZooKeeper stores a.Meta file, which contains a list of all the Region Servers. ZooKeeper’s responsibilities include:
1. Establishing communication across the Hadoop cluster
2. Maintaining configuration information
3. Tracking Region Server and HMaster failure
4. Maintaining Region Server information
